<H1> Journal </H1> 
<p>  I found this weeks activities to be quite satisfying. I was beginning to realize last week when we were obtaining information from the internet, that someone would have to clean it. Upon downloading the information for this weeks exercises and gazing upon the enormous amount of lines that made up the data set I started to get nervous thinking about how much I would have to go through to clean it. As I began to comb through the text file both manually and with REGEX I slowly began to relax. It started to become cathartic making sure all of the data was just so and trying to remove lines that didn’t belong. I ran into some problems however as I was often unsure of what lines I needed to delete and which ones I needed to keep. I didn’t know whether I needed to manually look through all 2000 remaining lines and delete anything that wasn’t a correspondence, or whether a later step would take care of that for me. Now that I’ve finished with it, I feel like I have a better idea of which lines would need to be combed out manually and how I could better harness REGEX to make that task even easier on myself. So if I did it again I’m certain it wouldn’t take near as long and would probably be cleaner. </p>
<p> Next I plugged my csv file into OpenRefine to help further clean my data. Upon loading up the file in OpenRefine and separating sender and recipient into their own facets, I noticed I had a bunch of data that didn’t make sense, lots of rows that shouldn’t have made it into my data set. I had to go back to do more trimming of my data before inputting it back into OpenRefine, but there was still lots I missed. Ignoring that for the time being I started clustering and merging my data. I found this to be the most satisfying part of everything we did this week. Manipulating the search criteria in order to find all the names that were incorrect and fixing them was deeply satisfying and I enjoyed it quite a bit when I didn’t expect to. I’m slightly disappointed that I couldn’t just delete a row after OpenRefine helped me find some more data that didn’t belong. </p> 
<p> I was not able to get the graphing software to work. I tried uploading both my file and the file provided by the prof but was met with a server error both times. I am going to try again later. </p> 
